Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hi misty
You look a little foggy
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Voice
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A lot of feedback I see you better
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The headphones. Maybe I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Connecting it plug it back in.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Misty Moncada: Okay, how
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: About now much better. Yeah.
Misty Moncada: Okay i i've never logged in on my tablet and I have a chapter of the keyboard. And I thought, I tried for the first time, but
Misty Moncada: I guess it's not working. Great. So
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I was just like a lot of rattling
Misty Moncada: So hey,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you been since we last spoke
Misty Moncada: I'm good, I'm good. I'm doing
Misty Moncada: I'm doing a lot of meetings.
Misty Moncada: I went like last week, I went to Celebrate Recovery. I went to work as I went to the gym twice I had mental health therapy. I had a group, my group session on Friday. I've been doing everything I can. And I had community service.
Misty Moncada: So I'm doing everything I can to remain sober, I feel a little overwhelmed. But today, I didn't have anything to do. So I went to work out at the gym and I got my grandson ready for school and I slept.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, was making me feel overwhelmed.
Misty Moncada: Because I'm not used to regular life and doing all this stuff.
Misty Moncada: This is all new to me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what's this process been like for you.
Misty Moncada: Um, it
Misty Moncada: I mean, I'm doing it, I'm just
Misty Moncada: Like a little bit overwhelmed by it but I'm getting it done. So I'm trying to adjust the best I can.
Misty Moncada: I don't know. I guess it's okay yeah I mean today. My mom let me sleep and I like she just let me rest. So I slept quite a bit. And I don't know if it's I'm pushing myself so I because I don't. When I have idle time I think about getting high.
Misty Moncada: Yeah. So in order for me to not do that. I just stay busy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, that's a good, that's a good thing to do. I always encourage people that have it stabilized.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Fully in the recovery like some people have been so for so long you speak to them. They say, there really aren't any trump triggers. They don't see themselves going back
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But the fact that you can acknowledge that you're in a vulnerable state of your sobriety where you need to remain committed and that committed means just keep in my mind map the drug and anything aside from that will trigger
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A relapse. So just that awareness can help keep you accountable. Now the therapies that you see is she working on other things where she working solely on your relapse.
Misty Moncada: And sobriety, geez.
Misty Moncada: I started seeing her because I was diagnosed with bipolar and anxiety. So I've been seeing her since last year. Well, I started seeing a different therapists and she's my new one. And then when I got put on probation.
Misty Moncada: I had to start seeing their therapy for mental health and having a group once a week for mental health. So I'm now I have to go. But I had been going on my own for much trying to get some sort of help with my mental like the mental illness that they diagnosed me with and my addiction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Whoa.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like you mental health and the addiction.
When
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Will you usually it's like the main focus
Misty Moncada: I'm like, I like what I'm doing right now. I like the pattern. So like my focus is sobriety and I like knowing that I can vent to her.
Misty Moncada: I can talk to her, she put me in a class and I had my first group on Tuesday, and she asked me how I felt about it and I liked it like
Misty Moncada: It was not like a strict OH group. It was like everybody got to talk about issues and we play Bingo. And, you know, it was just a different kind of groups. So for me I my focus is sobriety with all these groups and her. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What, what would be the difference between you go to those groups and that therapy versus right how it helps groups in therapy. I just want to make sure I don't cross in one
Misty Moncada: I'm, uh, I'm okay with both of them. Like I feel like the more feedback. I'm getting on my addiction, the better. I feel like I'm okay with this therapy with you. I'm okay with my group every Friday.
Misty Moncada: Um, I like in group on Friday, how she posted like pictures for us to see and like you know explain to us things that I never recognized. So I'm learning for everything.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's been your biggest takeaway so far I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: From legacy score.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: NPS me
Misty Moncada: Might be biggest sweat.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your biggest takeaway from just everything. You mentioned the group you're Learning Ally both of the programs. What's been like a big takeaway for you that you just kind of been thinking about
Misty Moncada: Um, I'm
Misty Moncada: Like, I don't know, I just think that like the pros and cons. Like when I start getting overwhelmed. I just think of how far I've come.
Misty Moncada: You know, so I'm like, when I start getting frustrated, like I've been going to the gym. So, because I know I've been getting like irritable with everything lately I've been a
Misty Moncada: Like just hateful about beings. And I don't know if that's just because I'm not used to life itself. But when I start thinking about good I think about the bad I should think about that. I think about
Misty Moncada: The good you know kind of Wayne both things outside unbalanced. I just don't stay positive. I think about all the negative things in case it were to happen. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, you've been to so many different things so many different experiences that you're almost waiting for the next event to happen.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With that, yeah, comes the anxiety. You know, so your bag gnosis but also
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Intensify that you know when you're focused on are you so used to things that working well. A lot of people are conditioned then to just wait for. Okay, what's next, what's the next experience that I have where I will be a she's
Misty Moncada: A writer writer.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I want to share a video with you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That helps to do just some basic
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Regulation, so that when you find yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In a position of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Influence and you can kind of do this self check in.
Misty Moncada: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Can you hear it.
Misty Moncada: No.
Misty Moncada: It sounds like it's cutting out mind body practices and mindfulness practices that can help you and your clients to regulate your mind, your body, your emotions and even your impulses
Misty Moncada: Now I learned recently that we have close to 100,000 thoughts. A day all swirling around in our minds, just like the glitter in this jar. You can get hard to see, or think clearly at all.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And for our clients who are maybe struggling with anxiety with depression or with trauma. We knew that most of these thoughts are going to be pretty negative pretty unpleasant often even pretty terrifying and certainly not always so accurate.
So what I want to share with you are a few ways we can help our clients just settle their minds, not to get rid of their thoughts but just to be able to see things a bit more clearly bit more accurately, in the course of day to day life.
So with that, I'd like to introduce you to a short practice. I learned over the years. It's an acronym halt, and it simply stands for a little mind body check in with yourself, you can ask yourself, are you hungry.
Are you angry or anxious, a feeling lonely unless they are you tired, and then what can you do about those things.
So let's start by checking in right now. Are you feeling hungry.
Because if we're feeling hungry. If our blood sugar is low. We know that's going to depress our mood in our clients mood.
Well, so am I getting enough glucose into the prefrontal cortex where we think things through where we control our impulses are we see things a bit more clearly and we're really able to do are focusing and have our executive functions.
So being hungry means that we're really losing our mind not able to think so straight so we can help our clients with this a little bit with this and black and
Secondly, H stands for angry or anxious. These are basically representative of our fight and flight response, how we feel when we're stressed out.
When we're angry or anxious cortisol is coursing through us and we'll talk about how to deal with that in a moment.
But it's also shutting shutting off our prefrontal cortex again where we think things through.
Showing off our insular cortex where we take other people's perspective where we have empathy, where we understand where other people are coming from.
And so we're really certainly not at our best because our amygdala is turned on telling us that everything looks like a danger and really giving us an inaccurate perception of what's happening in the world around us.
Next return toward L lonely.
Misty Moncada: Now one old saying we have courses right if your mind is a dangerous neighborhood. Don't go there alone.
Misty Moncada: Right. That's the job of US therapists to accompany our clients and our patients when their mind is a dangerous neighborhood.
Misty Moncada: So it's encouraging them to reach out to not be so disconnected to help them build and maintain that network of support.
Misty Moncada: Because we know also from the research on positive psychology and when our clients have more emotional and social support from people around them and and network, they're going to be happier.
Misty Moncada: Their moods going to be better even their physical health is going to be better when they're not so long, like
Lastly, T stands for tired.
Misty Moncada: Now what happens when we're tired at the end of a long day. But our willpower shuts down or prefrontal cortex again shuts down can think things through can't focus can't manage our impulses, or even regulate our emotions so well.
Misty Moncada: And what else is happening even after a night of not so good sleep, which we know so many of our clients are struggling with
Misty Moncada: They're actually almost losing a few IQ points for each each hour that we're not getting sleep at night.
Misty Moncada: So our clients are really not at their best in terms of learning how to take care of themselves and do the work that they need to do in therapy when they're feeling tired.
Misty Moncada: So it's a simple acronym for both ourselves and to share with our clients just check in every so often. Are you feeling hungry. Are you feeling angry or anxious feeling lonely. Are you feeling tired. What, perhaps, can you do about that.
And there's some single thing, simple things we can do for hungry and lonely and maybe even for tired. I prefer angry and anxious, what can we do. Well, this is where some mind body settling techniques can be helpful.
And so maybe if we have that cortisol coursing through us, that are constantly they want to shake it out.
Misty Moncada: Shake out one hand the other hand shaking your head should get your feet, your feet. It's actually helps loosen up
Misty Moncada: Saw throughout the system once or animals do after they've been stressed out, so they don't develop PTSD and quite the same way humans do. And then just stop, think we've shaken up the jar and I are self to settle
Pulling your hair settling on the top of your head.
In your island. So on top of each other.
Your tongue, lips settle in your mouth.
sensations of your hand sewing and you'll have
Your back and leg settling on the chair.
Mostly your feet settle on the floor.
scaling back up to your body.
While your eyes to open
Maybe even finding yourself just a bit more settle a bit more clear. Just like the glitter on the john
So these are just a few simple practices, you can use yourself, share with your clients when they're struggling. The halt hungry angry lonely entire just a real simple mindful checking
It is shake it off and then settle it down practice and really helps us settle in ground ourselves up our clients ground themselves in the course of day to day life when they're feeling a little bit overwhelmed agitated and activated with anger, anxiety,
So hope you found these couple of practices.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, you're on the video.
Misty Moncada: Um, I like how he's talking about being overwhelmed because that's exactly how I felt so um I like how he is explaining like how to deal with that.
Misty Moncada: Um, that's funny, because that's what I'm dealing with right now being overwhelmed. So I think that was a good video. I think that was just meant for me to see
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You videos and different resources when people say certain things are just triggers me to to share certain materials, I found that video. I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Very helpful because oftentimes we have these emotions and we don't know where that's coming from. Where's it routed from and I can tell you, if I'm hungry or from Asia is because of like time or something like that. I have a mood.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like I'm very irritable.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or, you know, people will try to connect with me and they're trying to figure out why. And typically, if I do the whole chicken. I can identify why
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I may not be as welcoming to other people. Why I may be discipline myself from people. So this is something that I would encourage you to do every day to do a check in.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And particularly in situations or events that you know will create a trigger or free environment so
Misty Moncada: Think about a day.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To day what events situations people or places usually cause you to get into move
Misty Moncada: Um, it's just because I've had a lot to do you like probation. I had community service. And I have to start going to group for them.
Misty Moncada: And I have to see a therapist for them and I see a therapist with you and I do my group on Friday. And then I was going to as a Celebrate Recovery, but that, you know, just to do them.
Misty Moncada: So I think starting out, because I never live like life like this is so long. I'm getting overwhelmed. But I'm getting it done.
Misty Moncada: And at the end of the day, I feel accomplished. I feel like I got it done. I'm okay. But like
Misty Moncada: During those moments. Oh, in the now I have my grandson temporary custody. He's three years old. So like, that's another thing for me is because, like all these classes. I have to go to and and I have to ask my mom to watch him.
Misty Moncada: You know, so like, I'm just so many things I'm I get a one with but it doesn't bother me as bad where I feel like I have to go use it, doesn't it, I just
Misty Moncada: I feel like I have to stop and take a deep breath and then afterwards when I've accomplished everything at the end of the day, I feel accomplished, like, wow, I did it. And I feel so good. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You describe that real well it's not necessarily the action of what you have to do because like you said you're getting it done. And that's actually a good affirmation to remind yourself every day that you're getting it done that statement in
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is a sense of pride and accomplishment. So when you find yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right before you want to go into group writing right before you have to go to therapy with Celebrate Recovery which appeal do that health check.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right say right now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Before you go into the place
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In my hungry angry anxious Noli
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And whatever emotion comes comes up. You can literally do this to release all the cortisol.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Allow yourself to settle
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But then also repeat that affirming statement.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And getting it.
Done.
Misty Moncada: Right, because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's so powerful.
Misty Moncada: right in. I like a select at the end of the day, I feel so accomplished on like, wow, like I did it. Like, I feel so good and then
Misty Moncada: I also like I went to Barnes and Nobles and bought a book. I wanted to read and I went and bought the a book. So like at nighttime when I feel relaxed, I can just kind of read
Misty Moncada: And then my therapist wanted me to keep a little journal my feelings that way if I ever feel like I want to
Misty Moncada: Relapse like what triggered me my feeling so I've been doing this as well. So I'm doing anything I can to remain sober and if this helps or they feel it's going to help. And I'm just going to try it.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What came first appeal one best
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not what
Misty Moncada: Was quite maybe
Misty Moncada: No right heart health came first. I wasn't on paper probation or anything. Okay.
Misty Moncada: Now and then I just got put on probation. Barely. So I got out of jail on the wealth and
Misty Moncada: I started, I had to go check your probation on the 13th and I I officially got put on probation on that Thursday on the 16th.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Misty Moncada: So, I mean, there's a lot of things I'm having to do, but I, I'm okay with that. Like, I'm not stressing. Like I said, I just get a little frustrated but that's okay. That's going to happen to me, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Create the structure for you that you haven't been depressed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For a while, so we met last what two weeks ago. And you said that you were very focused on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Getting sober.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Staying on the right path and seeking employment.
Misty Moncada: Any updates. Yes.
Misty Moncada: Anywhere.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: On the planet.
Misty Moncada: No, no, I've been putting applications and net
Misty Moncada: Are like the way I'm going right now.
Misty Moncada: I'm just gonna be patient. I'm just gonna be patient because
Misty Moncada: Yeah, because if I just felt like there's so much stuff. I gotta do. And if I just jump into that. Then now.
Misty Moncada: I'm going to be more overwhelmed. But like, I'm also I had other appointments that not just what I had to focus on. Like I made an eye doctor point being got glasses. Again, I made a dentist's appointment and had my cleaning, um,
Misty Moncada: I had, you know, had to go get an annual Pap smear like everything that I neglected. When I was on drugs. I have done.
Misty Moncada: So, you know, those are other appointments that I got done and I was okay with that. Like it was
Misty Moncada: Okay, right now, you know, because I got everything that I needed to and I needed new glasses, which I should have monitoring.
Misty Moncada: But I was cleaning. So I took them off, you know, and then I needed my teeth clean and you know I needed to go for annual. So these were things that I threw in the back burner and didn't care about
Misty Moncada: So for me right now. I just spill so good that I'm focusing on what needs to be done and like my calendar was all this whole month and then now like
Misty Moncada: Like next week. It's not going to be that bad. You know what I'm saying. So, like, I don't know. I'm I'm my routine is getting kind of crazy, but it's okay.
Misty Moncada: It's making me making me sober stay sober. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm seeing that all of these things that you're doing to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Improve yourself. You know, I'm already seeing the fruits of that I'm seeing it from to supply because I'm hearing when you speak that if you come up with this is overwhelming. I'll hear you say. But I'm getting it done. You know, you would say, I'm stressed, but I'm okay. Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And right there is yes already replaced the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Negative thinking with a positive statement.
Misty Moncada: So you're continuously. Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Case inactive those negative thoughts stopping it and replacing it with the affirmation interested to know how old in your style of thinking. Was this a new skill that you you're using
Misty Moncada: As a new skill that I'm using. And I'm learning from you guys. I'm learning for bright heart health. Every Friday.
Misty Moncada: I'm learning from therapy. I'm learning from Celebrate Recovery every little piece that I get from anybody I'm putting these all together. Now, the old me, I would have been like, I don't care. I don't care what I have to do so leave me alone. I'm
Misty Moncada: I am so proud of myself. I'VE BEEN SOBER SINCE January 1 faithfully because I did a shot of heroin on January 1. That was my last day. So like for me.
Misty Moncada: I have. I haven't had my veins itch lot but like the craving in my mouth. No, because I'm on the program, you know, and I'm doing I'm taking my Suboxone but
Misty Moncada: Like I know my veins itch and that kind of bothers me. But like, other than that, like, I'm so proud of myself because to me, I've come a long way. You know 29 days to me is is amazing, you know, to just faithfully be off of heroin. What's the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's the longest time span that you've been offered
Misty Moncada: I can remember like when I went to prison. Prison didn't even stop me from doing heroin.
Misty Moncada: And I did heroin in prison, and then I know I've stopped, like maybe months at a time. But restarted. I think maybe just a few months.
Misty Moncada: I've never actually stopped completely like I've never had a year of sobriety. I've never had six months of sobriety. It was always some sort of drug, whether it was pills or heroin or or math or whatever I could get my hands on it one time, you know, I didn't care. But then
Misty Moncada: Then you know the last few years, it was just heroin heroin heroin and I just couldn't stop. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We spoke last you also said that you were going on dinner with your ex husband.
Yes, that go
Misty Moncada: It's good. We
Misty Moncada: We decided not to start any type of relationship because we're both hailing he's been sober like two years and I'm really new my sobriety. He's been pushing me to
Misty Moncada: To be better, but we just decided not to even pursue anything because we're both we both just need to get through our problems. First, but it was amazing. And he's been amazing support for me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you feeling about that decision.
Misty Moncada: How do I feel about
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What about the decision.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not
Misty Moncada: I liked the decision because I just broke up with a boyfriend that I had a you know and like, I'm still not over him and my ex husband has a girlfriend had ex girlfriend, he's still not over and
Misty Moncada: I don't want us to just be wanting to talk to each other because we both feel lonely, you know,
Misty Moncada: So the best thing for me right now is I'm still new in my sobriety and I don't want to. I don't want to mess that up because what if I
Misty Moncada: Getting to relationship is going to mess things up and I'm going to get frustrated. I'm going to want to use or it's just going to set me back and therefore I don't want that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tell me you know as being me. I want to learn more about misty find out the best way for
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What are some of your best quality.
Misty Moncada: I don't know, like I'm trying to find myself. It's been so long since I knew me like I don't know what my likes or dislikes. Um, I know that I want it. I don't know where I wanted to learn how to play the guitar.
Misty Moncada: I just don't know me right now. And that's just my big thing is just learning me all over again because I'm just still new in my sobriety. So I have to find me all over again.
Misty Moncada: I mean, the old me
Misty Moncada: Oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead. Just the old me was a bad person. You know, so there's no likes about that, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That was going to be my question, you know, younger version of yourself with any quality about that.
Misty Moncada: Now, I was very violent I lived on I just the streets were for me.
Misty Moncada: I was a violent person I was a victim of violent crimes um I indulged in that kind of lifestyle guns and knives and drugs and and Gang life. And I didn't care. So
Misty Moncada: For me, I can honestly say I enjoyed that at that time.
Misty Moncada: To me it was
Misty Moncada: It was it was what I liked it that time. But like, now I can say that I think it's embarrassing.
Misty Moncada: I think that
Misty Moncada: I look so dumb. You know, it's just, I'm glad that I'm not doing that stupid crap anymore.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Violent crimes. I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In your victim of violent crimes, because you did tell me during the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Bio psychosocial you sold drugs. Correct.
Misty Moncada: Yeah I sold drugs and use drugs and then
Misty Moncada: I've been shot twice, and I've been stabbed one time and I stabbed two people. One time, so like
Misty Moncada: I first violent crime. I got off on the second one. He didn't show up to court. So is less retards you know so
Misty Moncada: Everything for me was like it was just violence, violence, violence drugs in the street life so living this life right now is
Misty Moncada: Um, I mean, I've lived it before. You know what I'm saying. But like
Misty Moncada: It's just, it's different. It's different, but I'm finding a pattern to cope with it and
Misty Moncada: And
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So someone that has
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The history of violent crime.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What will be your worst fear.
Misty Moncada: Um, I don't know. I have PTSD of sharp objects lying around. So like I think my worst fear is it's it's crazy like
Misty Moncada: Leaving something sharp where someone has access naked stabbed me like that's one of my worst fears right now and I got stabbed in 2008 and I still have PTSD bad, like when I wash dishes, I have to put the forks and knives away because they're sharp objects.
Misty Moncada: It's just, that's the only my biggest fear is it, I don't know, like, I don't know if I'll get over that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's a common recurrent when you have PTSD. It can be any sites, it could be smells. It could be as many people, places, or things that trigger bad experience that almost six years back to that present to that past situation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is that what happens when you see sharp objects.
Misty Moncada: Yes. And then also a Freshly Cut Grass reminds me of the smell of methamphetamines and I don't know why. So when I smell.
Misty Moncada: Freshly Cut Grass, I get nauseous. Because like I've been around people who cooked it and that's what it smells like. To me, so like that's a trigger on because I did heroin for so long. If I smell something sour, like vinegar or
Misty Moncada: salty, sour, it's a trigger from me, because that's what it smells like. When I would cook it on a spoon BEFORE I SHUT UP, it's a sour smell. So for me, those were those are triggers for me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's good that you've identified that I'm going along with what you mentioned with the PTSD. The way to help kind of reduce those events of you going back to incident where you were sad is allowing you to restore that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So typically when we have memories there imprints in our brain of an experience when it's a traumatic experience. It doesn't go through the regular flow of going to the hippocampus.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Been going through our meal frontal cortex so that it can just be stored as a memory and once it started as a memory. You can kind of retail the events like it happened in the past, but when it's something traumatic. It doesn't go through that same storage process. So it says forget the
Misty Moncada: Hippocampus
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It goes straight to the amygdala and the amygdala, it gets triggered. Right. So when it gets triggered and flooded with events that will be stressful. It doesn't store itself in the meal frontal cortex. It continues with the fight or flight response. So that will make sense as
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To why when you got stabbed in time you see a sharp object, you go into maybe the flight or fight or had been in your situation kind of Please reflect and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Then, remind yourself that you're in a kitchen, you're in the present day. And when you continue to do that. Those grounding techniques. What it does each time it gives you a brand new opportunity to restore that past
Events.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that over time you distance yourself from going back to the past and now my new yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I say all this to say that even though is a traumatic experience there is hope that while you still have these
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You can reprocess it
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In your mind so that you're not as easily.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Going back to those flashbacks.
Misty Moncada: Right. Right. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the reason why I asked about the fears is because a lot of those fears, they play out in our everyday life.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You don't
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Even know it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And we can be triggered I'll share an experience with you when I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was younger
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I had several different situations.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where there were just big dogs that would approach me and they would be barking and I would just be terrified and it was always when I was walking one time was when I was walking to
Misty Moncada: Have Emma's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: House, there will be a group of dogs and these were rough dogs. Remember those like chain link fences, because back in the day guys weren't living in houses like
Misty Moncada: They were outside dogs.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so I was walking and a gang of them just kind of surrounded me and my younger brother, which is barking and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: My dad had to run out.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then they all, you know, please, then there was another situation. I was
Misty Moncada: Lucky
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It was like an open field and out of nowhere. A dog just came out of that field and just started barking and me and my brother died across a busy street so those experiences in itself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Cause my middle to be triggered. And so, missy. If I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Thinking in a parking lot, if I'm walking and someone's jiggling their keys that sound immediately triggers.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's a dog behind me, because the sound.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Of the key. Wow. Most mirrors either a leash for change the color. So there's been times where I'm See I'm walking in the pipeline and somebody could be walking and running with their kids and their hand. I'll turn around so quickly.
Vital
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the way I do that, the way I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: remind myself. Okay, calm down. Don't be fearful, as I have to take deep breaths and i i replay those past moments and I say, but right now I'm in the parking lot.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right now I'm saying there is an adult.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And granted, you know, some people would even say will try exposure therapy, they'll say surround yourself or go to a big dog and see how responsive.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If you have a little relationship with a dog that's big, then maybe that will change the situation. Um, but sometimes immersing yourself in those situations isn't a requirement. It's just really just reprogramming your mind. But I give the example to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Say that, even me as a therapist that knows the skills and know what to do. That sound triggers that response in me because of my amygdala.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right because of just is there to protect us to say, hey, something's going on run fight to check the date to touch yourself.
Misty Moncada: Right.
Misty Moncada: And then with the pressure. Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Smells I would say you should carry something around that you can smell at any given moment to kind of replace the other smell.
Misty Moncada: Right and see. I like how you explain to you what triggers you because I get a better insight of, like, for me, I'm just like, I'm, I'm not calm about it like
Misty Moncada: I know like during the summer when I smell the smell of the grass like I get like antsy and I have to get away from that smell and it's like everywhere in the air. Yeah. Um, so like I like how you explained it.
Misty Moncada: To me because, you know, in my mind, I'm thinking, am I the only one that has these issues. That's the way I feel
Misty Moncada: And and I feel like, Am I the only one in some time in the past, I would get embarrassed to explain myself to a therapist or
Misty Moncada: Or counseling because I felt like I was the only one who had these weird thoughts and you know so I really like how you use yours and showed me that you had him because it makes me feel more comfortable. Yeah.
Misty Moncada: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're all we're all human beings that have experiences that have changed our perception on events.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And some people I tell the story to it, their dog lovers, they can't even imagine. While be afraid of a good job. You know, they always say, well, he's such a sweet dog. Hello, I'm here to know him. Just keep him away from me.
Misty Moncada: So I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Myself, you know, I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have several people that will say, oh, he's a sweetheart. Well, he's a sweetheart to you, but he may not be a sweetheart. To me, it's still that imprint.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That I see a big dog it registers trauma. I see a big dog it registers feel. Um, and, and I just need to and I continuously work through that experience.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I actually got a dog to kind of help me to get accustomed to pets and their behaviors and understand. So now I can walk past someone's walking the big dog.
Misty Moncada: I can walk past them without the same
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Level of fear that I had years ago.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But that's because I had to do first. The replacing the thoughts and based on what you shared
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're already really good at that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With replacing the thoughts.
Misty Moncada: So you just need the additional rules.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: right not to just replace the thought, but then also we replaced the memory so sharp object or I like what you do you handle those first you put those objects away.
Misty Moncada: Yes, I've always done that, even when I was high or drunk. My thoughts of being hurt. We're 100% more in my mind like I'm when I'm high I feel
Misty Moncada: Like if someone's going to get me. I'm going to get them first kind of feeling so my thoughts on anything sharp were were crazy. Like now that I'm not high. They're still there, but they're not as a tense. So
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The ground.
Misty Moncada: So I'm doing it.
Yeah.
Misty Moncada: I'm I am I'm doing the best I can. I'm proud of myself, I'm
Misty Moncada: I'm proud of myself. I had a UA today for probation and I passed it like like for me that made me feel really good because
Misty Moncada: In the past, it's like okay like I was on drugs and like for me to pass out UAE and my pod in the past when I was on adult probation, I would always run or be like, Oh, I'm dirty. So today, that was accomplishment for me being being having a clean your way. So, yeah, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The lingering theme that I'm hearing you talk about is having pride, you, you're very proud of yourself. You know, this week in your accomplishments
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So think about that you recapping you reflect on your day come up with one takeaway one word that would describe your progress.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because you want to build more success stories that eventually you'll distance yourself from the identity of being that addicts that you know avoided her peel that didn't have any instruction didn't have any responsibility. A U shaped that identity with the new misty
Misty Moncada: Them. Right, right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, you know, the same way you did it with with the minds and the sharp objects is contrast so now you want to try to distance yourself from the old ones.
Misty Moncada: Also, I'm really happy because now I've been posting positive affirmations on Facebook, as well as a
Misty Moncada: More godly affirmations scriptures. I'm positive about the overcoming drug addiction and like I key. I'm like, had like a handful of people tell me that I'm inspiring them to get help.
Misty Moncada: So that made me feel good to like. And then also, when I went to go check when I went to metro how to my therapist. I told her that I was on this program.
Misty Moncada: And she wanted your guys's information. So if she ever had to help addicts come clean.
Misty Moncada: She would help them so that made me feel good that my peels. Like, can I have that information and I gave her your guys's address and number and everything because I thought, Wow.
Misty Moncada: She could reach out to others, you know, and I'm glad I mentioned that. So it, but I know I gotta fix myself first. I can't just think I could fix
Everybody
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But what you're doing is you're building a relationship of accountability to. So when you're out there, you're posting things on Facebook.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're sharing information, but at the same time, it's almost like you're sending the message that hold me accountable, right, because if you can't tell your child, don't hit someone and you turn around right in front of their face and hit someone
Misty Moncada: That's what I told my mom yesterday or the day for Ashley. I was talking to my mom and I said, I have to lead by example and practice what I preach because
Misty Moncada: Like I post these positive things and then I told I was telling my mom that like I want to live by that and I just don't want to be a different person by. So, you know, I was just talking about that. The day before yesterday. Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what affirmation. Do you think you'll carry on for the rest of the week.
Misty Moncada: I'm
Misty Moncada: Positive
Misty Moncada: Encouraging I'm motivated
Misty Moncada: emotive motivation for me as a positive affirmation, um,
Misty Moncada: I know to me some variety of course you know sobriety, of course, and I got kind of upset the other day, because I had a friend who wanted to go to church with me and
Misty Moncada: And I haven't seen him in a long time. He's been sober off alcohol, two months. So we went to church and after church.
Misty Moncada: And he's like, damn, I wish I had some money. So to go buy something to drink and drink. And I was like, I've been sober and he was like, Come on. One little mini won't hurt so um
Misty Moncada: I said, could you take me home because I he gave me a ride to churches vehicle. So today, I told him that I'm that I need to step back from being his friend because
Misty Moncada: He's, he's breaking my focus right now on things and I told because like, not only that, like, he's like, let me go pick you up so we can hang out and let's just have one drink and he keeps like pushing me
Misty Moncada: Or keep saying little things. And so today I told him, you're, you're just like, I'm not focused when I, when I talk to you and I got to kind of step away from our friendship. Right now I need to focus on me.
Misty Moncada: So, oh, that just kind of bothered me because if he was my real friend, he wouldn't have done that crap and and he actually has been a real friend of mine for years, but
Misty Moncada: I, I just got so upset. Like why would you do that to me, you know, and I didn't explain that to him. I just said, I just got to step back for our friendship. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Which was the last vision but you know miss the that addiction clouds judgment. So while he may have some good
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Attributes as a friend. He's still so low in his recovery that he doesn't think in the right mind space.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He doesn't use rational thinking so smart to distance yourself from him and to maybe be around people that you know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Don't don't have issue with addiction or that had been very stable in the recovery for a long time because like it said in the video of the whole video, it's important to have those social connections and so that you can have that network of support.
Misty Moncada: Yes.
You were gonna say something
Misty Moncada: You can say something setting out. Oh.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Were you going to say something.
Misty Moncada: No, no, I'm saying you were cutting out
Misty Moncada: Here you
Misty Moncada: Know, I think, I think I pretty much got everything else that I needed to talk about
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Who have you identified as your support. Right.
Misty Moncada: Um, my mom is a big support my big sister, my son.
Misty Moncada: Celebrate Recovery everybody at the church and my ex husband.
Misty Moncada: My brother in prison, he calls and he's, he's like, encouraging on the phone, um,
Misty Moncada: I feel like I've never had such great support like I do right now.
Misty Moncada: No, I, I have a lot of support right now and I'm just thankful for that. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And what I would want you to work on for the next time that we meet is to end discover what your best qualities are. I want you to write down a list of what gives you joy.
Misty Moncada: So best qualities and what else well
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You said we want to give that some time he you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Were very clear when you
Misty Moncada: Said,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, I'm still trying to identify me and so finding your best qualities might be the
Misty Moncada: Next step.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So this first, that would be identify what is you great joy.
Misty Moncada: So best qualities of mine, I could put in my journal best qualities of mine. And then what else, what gives you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: great joy.
Misty Moncada: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So to answer the question of what gives you great joy. First she would have to have the awareness of what July feels like for you.
Misty Moncada: And
Misty Moncada: Once you get those down.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Once you identify what feels like for you. Then when you feel that experience. Again, you can write it down.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So before we close
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Think about
Misty Moncada: What is the definition of
Joy.
Misty Moncada: And be happy.
Misty Moncada: I think that's my definition being happy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What is happiness feel like in your body.
Misty Moncada: I feel content I feel relieved when I'm happy like something was was done for me to feel that way. Um, I think that's how I felt.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So capitals whenever you experience great joy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I want you to write the day and I want you to write. What was it that gave you back great joy.
Misty Moncada: And it's important. What it is my
Great.
Misty Moncada: And it's important. So what basketball.
With the day
Misty Moncada: Know what the day
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I said yes, the day. And also, what exactly is happening so that you can say you've got great joy.
Misty Moncada: OK. OK.
Misty Moncada: OK, I will scare
Misty Moncada: The whole Mark Yeah as much detail.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: As you put into place, got it down to meet again we can discuss
Misty Moncada: So best qualities of mine and what gives me great joy. Yeah. Put the days. Okay. I did that I put it in my journal right here I have a journal. So I'll just do it for every day. I know just explain. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, we'll touch base on that. The next on me and you said we would meet every other week. Right.
Misty Moncada: Man, you
Yes.
Misty Moncada: Okay, yes.
Misty Moncada: Is there any way I cannot make it on a Thursday I want to go to Celebrate Recovery. I go to Celebrate Recovery on Monday nights and a friend invited me to go to Celebrate Recovery on Thursday nights from five to eight. Can I make it on
Misty Moncada: I'm
Misty Moncada: Okay, you see TUESDAY THE 11th. I have a meeting for probation, I have to do at 7pm. But, and then Wednesday, I go to church at 6pm me see can I do not Friday night.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I don't see patients on Friday.
Misty Moncada: Okay, okay. Um, so we seen this week. Let me see.
Misty Moncada: Okay. And I'll just do it for
Misty Moncada: As you said, every other week. Can we do it like on the 12th. On February 12 tonight.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wednesday.
Misty Moncada: Thursday. Yeah. Okay. Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When they
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Six o'clock.
Misty Moncada: Six o'clock. Yes.
Misty Moncada: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And we'll see you next week or two weeks from now Wednesday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: At six o'clock.
Misty Moncada: Yes, ma'am. All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We keep repeating those mantras. You're doing a good job.
Misty Moncada: Okay. Yes, ma'am. I will, thank you so much.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Thank you. Have a good night.
Misty Moncada: You to Jessica. Bye.